# project1.github.io
Analysis of Performance of Class VIII Students in the Year 2014 Using Regression Modelling and Data Visualization in Python
Tool Used: Python 2.7
Data Cleaning and Data Preapration: A lot of missing values was observed in the attributes Math %, Reading %, Science % and Social %. Since lot of observations would have been lot if they were considered to remove, I took the liberty in taking average of students marks which are available, so as to judge students performance in academics. I added an additional data including column" division which contains the divisions of India: {South India, North India, East India, West India, Central India, Union Territory}. There were lot of 0's in other columns which was not defined in the data dictionary. So they were avoided individualy while doing data visualization for those variables.Some extra columns like latitudes(lan) and longitudes(lon) were also added to define the states in the map during data visualization. Columns containing categorical variables were converted to dummy variables.
Data Modeling and Validation: The given data set has been divided into training(70 %) and testing(30 %) data set. The continous variable average of the students has been divided to below average and above average binary variables, so as to perform logistic regression. By using Statmodel in python, regression function GLM was able to perform logistic regression and provide with a accuracy of 63%. Linear modeling was also performed for predicting the average of the students by using Ordinary Least Square function from Statmodel, but failed to get a good model for it.
Data Visualization: Since there was only four continuous variables and the rest were categorical, scatter plot and line plots didnt have much role in this case study. Mainly used graphs were Bargraph, histograms, paired bargraphs and count plots. Map plotting was also performed by providing the latitudes and longitudes of the states as input. Basemap package was used to produce map plot. 
